# Machine-Learning-projects-using-python
# Project 1: Preprocessing and fiting KNN to UFO sightings dataset. In this project, I learned how to deal with data issues like missing data,and incorrect datatypes, how to standardize numerical values (scaling and log nomalization(log is useful on columns has very large variance which will affect model performance )) and process categorical ones(label encoding and one hot encoding),  how to engineer new features that will improve your dataset(extract useful infos from columns and creat new features), and finally, how to select features for modeling(try reduce redundant features to improve model performance). See project 1 for details.
##
# Project 2: Prediciting credit card approval. In this project, I apply machine learning (feature selection,hyperparameter tuning, etc),  data tranformation(label encoding,change date types) and data manipulation techniques, the outcome is a model that was able to predict the outcome of a credit applications with 84% accuracy. See project 2 for details.
##
# Project 3: Classify Song Genres from Audio Data. In this project, I standardizes features using Standard Scaler( by removing the mean and scaling to unit variance),and applied principle component analysis to lower dimension of the dataset, and then I trained two models (decision tree and logistic regression) to the data and improved model performance by applying kfold cross-validation. Another take away from this project is that by sampling our data, the dataset have reduced greatly, thus reduce bias, however, just note that : by doing sampling to reduce bias in the dataset, I have removed a lot of data points that might have been crucial to training our models, but here, just want to compare if doing sampling would help the classifier to better predict 'Rock' genre of songs, and as you can see from the classification report, it has removed bias towards the more prevalent class (one has more data points compares to another).   See project 3 for details.
